README.md, before:

# PagoPA Wallet Service

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=pagopa_pagopa-wallet-service&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=pagopa_pagopa-wallet-service)

This microservice is responsible for keeping wallets inside the PagoPA platform.
Wallets are collections of payment instruments with a wallet identifier, and may be used both for guest and for
authenticated payments.

For authenticated payments, wallets are used to remember registered payment instruments for subsequent payments, while
for
guest (i.e. unauthenticated) payments, wallet are ephemeral and contain only the payment instrument used for the payment
session.

- [PagoPA Wallet Service](#pagopa-wallet-service)
    * [Api Documentation 📖](#api-documentation-)
    * [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
    * [Start Project Locally 🚀](#start-project-locally-)
        + [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
        + [Run docker container](#run-docker-container)
    * [Develop Locally 💻](#develop-locally-)
        + [Prerequisites](#prerequisites-1)
        + [Run the project](#run-the-project)
        + [Testing 🧪](#testing-)
            - [Unit testing](#unit-testing)
            - [Integration testing](#integration-testing)
            - [Performance testing](#performance-testing)
    * [Dependency management 🔧](#dependency-management-)
        + [Dependency lock](#dependency-lock)
        + [Dependency verification](#dependency-verification)
    * [Contributors 👥](#contributors-)
        + [Maintainers](#maintainers)

<small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with
markdown-toc</a></i></small>

---

## Api Documentation 📖

See
the [OpenAPI 3 here.](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pagopa/pagopa-wallet-service/main/api-spec/wallet-api.yaml)

---

## Technology Stack

- Kotlin
- Spring Boot

---

## Start Project Locally 🚀

### Prerequisites

- docker

### Populate the environment

The microservice needs a valid `.env` file in order to be run.

If you want to start the application without too much hassle, you can just copy `.env.example` with

```shell
$ cp .env.example .env
```

to get a good default configuration.

If you want to customize the application environment, reference this table:

| Variable name                                            | Description                                                        | type                     | default |
|----------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|---------|
| NPG_SERVICE_URI                                          | URL used to contact the payment gateway                            | string                   |         |
| NPG_SERVICE_READ_TIMEOUT                                 | Timeout for requests towards the payment gateway                   | string                   |         |
| NPG_SERVICE_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT                           | Timeout for estabilishing connections towards the payment gateway  | string                   |         |
| NPG_SERVICE_API_KEY                                      | Payment gateway API key                                            | string                   |         |
| MONGO_HOST                                               | Host where MongoDB instance used to persist wallet data            | hostname (string)        |         |
| MONGO_PORT                                               | Port where MongoDB is bound to in MongoDB host                     | number                   |         |
| MONGO_USERNAME                                           | MongoDB username used to connect to the database                   | string                   |         |
| MONGO_PASSWORD                                           | MongoDB password used to connect to the database                   | string                   |         |
| MONGO_SSL_ENABLED                                        | Whether SSL is enabled while connecting to MongoDB                 | string                   |         |
| DEFAULT_LOGGING_LEVEL                                    | Application root logger level                                      | string                   | INFO    |
| APP_LOGGING_LEVEL                                        | it.pagopa logger level                                             | string                   | INFO    |
| WEB_LOGGING_LEVEL                                        | Web logger level                                                   | string                   | DEBUG   |
| SESSION_URL_BASEPATH                                     | NPG URL base path                                                  | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_OUTCOME_SUFFIX                               | NPG outcome url suffix                                             | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_CANCEL_SUFFIX                                | NPG user cancel operation return url suffix                        | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_NOTIFICATION_URL                             | NPG notification URL                                               | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_TRX_WITH_CONTEXTUAL_ONBOARD_NOTIFICATION_URL | NPG notification URL for transaction with contextual onboard       | string                   |         |
| WALLET_ONBOARDING_CARD_RETURN_URL                        | Onboarding wallet front-end return url for card method             | string                   |         |
| WALLET_ONBOARDING_APM_RETURN_URL                         | Onboarding wallet front-end return url for other methods than card | string                   |         |
| WALLET_ONBOARDING_PAYPAL_PSP_API_KEY                     | Onboarding PSP API key for PayPal                                  | string                   |         |
| WALLET_PAYMENT_CARD_RETURN_URL                           | Payment with contextual onboarding credit card                     | string                   |         |
| ECOMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHODS_URI                            | eCommerce payment methods uri                                      | string                   |         |
| ECOMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHODS_TIMEOUT                        | eCommerce payment methods read and connection timeout              | string                   |         |
| ECOMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHODS_API_KEY                        | eCommerce payment methods api key                                  | string                   |         |
| REDIS_HOST                                               | Redis host name                                                    | string                   |         |
| REDIS_PASSWORD                                           | Redis password                                                     | string                   |         |
| REDIS_PORT                                               | Redis port                                                         | string                   |         |
| REDIS_SSL_ENABLED                                        | Whether SSL is enabled while connecting to  Redis                  | string                   |         |
| WALLET_SESSION_TTL                                       | Wallet session TTL in minutes                                      | int                      |         |
| WALLET_LOGO_MAPPING                                      | Wallet logo map parameter that handles wallet type to logo mapping | string (Map<string,URI>) |         |

### Run docker container

```shell
$ docker compose up --build
```

---

## Develop Locally 💻

### Prerequisites

- git
- gradle
- jdk-17

### Run the project

```shell
$ export $(grep -v '^#' .env.local | xargs)
$ ./gradlew bootRun
```

### Testing 🧪

#### Unit testing

To run the **Junit** tests:

```shell
$ ./gradlew test
```

#### Integration testing

TODO

#### Performance testing

install [k6](https://k6.io/) and then from `./performance-test/src`

1. `k6 run --env VARS=local.environment.json --env TEST_TYPE=./test-types/load.json main_scenario.js`

### Dependency management 🔧

For support reproducible build this project has the following gradle feature enabled:

- [dependency lock](https://docs.gradle.org/8.1/userguide/dependency_locking.html)
- [dependency verification](https://docs.gradle.org/8.1/userguide/dependency_verification.html)

#### Dependency lock

This feature use the content of `gradle.lockfile` to check the declared dependencies against the locked one.

If a transitive dependencies have been upgraded the build will fail because of the locked version mismatch.

The following command can be used to upgrade dependency lockfile:

```shell
./gradlew dependencies --write-locks 
```

Running the above command will cause the `gradle.lockfile` to be updated against the current project dependency
configuration

#### Dependency verification

This feature is enabled by adding the gradle `./gradle/verification-metadata.xml` configuration file.

Perform checksum comparison against dependency artifact (jar files, zip, ...) and metadata (pom.xml, gradle module
metadata, ...) used during build
and the ones stored into `verification-metadata.xml` file raising error during build in case of mismatch.

The following command can be used to recalculate dependency checksum:

```shell
./gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256 clean spotlessApply build 
```

In the above command the `clean`, `spotlessApply` `build` tasks where chosen to be run
in order to discover all transitive dependencies used during build and also the ones used during
spotless apply task used to format source code.

The above command will upgrade the `verification-metadata.xml` adding all the newly discovered dependencies' checksum.
Those checksum should be checked against a trusted source to check for corrispondence with the library author published
checksum.

`/gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256` command appends all new dependencies to the verification files but does
not remove
entries for unused dependencies.

This can make this file grow every time a dependency is upgraded.

To detect and remove old dependencies make the following steps:

1. Delete, if present, the `gradle/verification-metadata.dryrun.xml`
2. Run the gradle write-verification-metadata in dry-mode (this will generate a verification-metadata-dryrun.xml file
   leaving untouched the original verification file)
3. Compare the verification-metadata file and the verification-metadata.dryrun one checking for differences and removing
   old unused dependencies

The 1-2 steps can be performed with the following commands

```Shell
rm -f ./gradle/verification-metadata.dryrun.xml 
./gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256 clean spotlessApply build --dry-run
```

The resulting `verification-metadata.xml` modifications must be reviewed carefully checking the generated
dependencies checksum against official websites or other secure sources.

If a dependency is not discovered during the above command execution it will lead to build errors.

You can add those dependencies manually by modifying the `verification-metadata.xml`
file adding the following component:

```xml

<verification-metadata>
    <!-- other configurations... -->
    <components>
        <!-- other components -->
        <component group="GROUP_ID" name="ARTIFACT_ID" version="VERSION">
            <artifact name="artifact-full-name.jar">
                <sha256 value="sha value"
                        origin="Description of the source of the checksum value"/>
            </artifact>
            <artifact name="artifact-pom-file.pom">
                <sha256 value="sha value"
                        origin="Description of the source of the checksum value"/>
            </artifact>
        </component>
    </components>
</verification-metadata>
```

Add those components at the end of the components list and then run the

```shell
./gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256 clean spotlessApply build 
```

that will reorder the file with the added dependencies checksum in the expected order.

Finally, you can add new dependencies both to gradle.lockfile writing verification metadata running

```shell
 ./gradlew dependencies --write-locks --write-verification-metadata sha256
```

For more information read the
following [article](https://docs.gradle.org/8.1/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:checksum-verification)

## Contributors 👥

Made with ❤️ by PagoPA S.p.A.

### Maintainers

See `CODEOWNERS` file

Commit message:

feat: [CHK-2944] Wallet creation timeout event producer (#148)
* first naive implementation

* fix spotless

* fix deploy pipeline

* added test for domain event dispatcher service

* added test for logging event repository

* improved domain eventdispatcher service logging

* restore pay wallet deploy pipeline

* fix spotless

* some refactor + unit tests

* remove useless strict serializer

* restore docker compose

* update readme and environment variables

* rename environment variable

* renamed to WalletExpired to WalletCreated event

* handle migration created event

* explicit event for migrated wallet

* fix spotless

* Update src/main/kotlin/it/pagopa/wallet/config/SerializationConfiguration.kt

Co-authored-by: Giovanni Berti <giovanni.berti@pagopa.it>

* minor refactor

* fix spotless

---------

Co-authored-by: Giovanni Berti <giovanni.berti@pagopa.it>

README.md, after:

# PagoPA Wallet Service

[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=pagopa_pagopa-wallet-service&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=pagopa_pagopa-wallet-service)

This microservice is responsible for keeping wallets inside the PagoPA platform.
Wallets are collections of payment instruments with a wallet identifier, and may be used both for guest and for
authenticated payments.

For authenticated payments, wallets are used to remember registered payment instruments for subsequent payments, while
for
guest (i.e. unauthenticated) payments, wallet are ephemeral and contain only the payment instrument used for the payment
session.

- [PagoPA Wallet Service](#pagopa-wallet-service)
    * [Api Documentation 📖](#api-documentation-)
    * [Technology Stack](#technology-stack)
    * [Start Project Locally 🚀](#start-project-locally-)
        + [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
        + [Run docker container](#run-docker-container)
    * [Develop Locally 💻](#develop-locally-)
        + [Prerequisites](#prerequisites-1)
        + [Run the project](#run-the-project)
        + [Testing 🧪](#testing-)
            - [Unit testing](#unit-testing)
            - [Integration testing](#integration-testing)
            - [Performance testing](#performance-testing)
    * [Dependency management 🔧](#dependency-management-)
        + [Dependency lock](#dependency-lock)
        + [Dependency verification](#dependency-verification)
    * [Contributors 👥](#contributors-)
        + [Maintainers](#maintainers)

<small><i><a href='http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/'>Table of contents generated with
markdown-toc</a></i></small>

---

## Api Documentation 📖

See
the [OpenAPI 3 here.](https://editor.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pagopa/pagopa-wallet-service/main/api-spec/wallet-api.yaml)

---

## Technology Stack

- Kotlin
- Spring Boot

---

## Start Project Locally 🚀

### Prerequisites

- docker

### Populate the environment

The microservice needs a valid `.env` file in order to be run.

If you want to start the application without too much hassle, you can just copy `.env.example` with

```shell
$ cp .env.example .env
```

to get a good default configuration.

If you want to customize the application environment, reference this table:

| Variable name                                            | Description                                                        | type                     | default |
|----------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|---------|
| NPG_SERVICE_URI                                          | URL used to contact the payment gateway                            | string                   |         |
| NPG_SERVICE_READ_TIMEOUT                                 | Timeout for requests towards the payment gateway                   | string                   |         |
| NPG_SERVICE_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT                           | Timeout for estabilishing connections towards the payment gateway  | string                   |         |
| NPG_SERVICE_API_KEY                                      | Payment gateway API key                                            | string                   |         |
| MONGO_HOST                                               | Host where MongoDB instance used to persist wallet data            | hostname (string)        |         |
| MONGO_PORT                                               | Port where MongoDB is bound to in MongoDB host                     | number                   |         |
| MONGO_USERNAME                                           | MongoDB username used to connect to the database                   | string                   |         |
| MONGO_PASSWORD                                           | MongoDB password used to connect to the database                   | string                   |         |
| MONGO_SSL_ENABLED                                        | Whether SSL is enabled while connecting to MongoDB                 | string                   |         |
| DEFAULT_LOGGING_LEVEL                                    | Application root logger level                                      | string                   | INFO    |
| APP_LOGGING_LEVEL                                        | it.pagopa logger level                                             | string                   | INFO    |
| WEB_LOGGING_LEVEL                                        | Web logger level                                                   | string                   | DEBUG   |
| SESSION_URL_BASEPATH                                     | NPG URL base path                                                  | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_OUTCOME_SUFFIX                               | NPG outcome url suffix                                             | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_CANCEL_SUFFIX                                | NPG user cancel operation return url suffix                        | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_NOTIFICATION_URL                             | NPG notification URL                                               | string                   |         |
| SESSION_URL_TRX_WITH_CONTEXTUAL_ONBOARD_NOTIFICATION_URL | NPG notification URL for transaction with contextual onboard       | string                   |         |
| WALLET_ONBOARDING_CARD_RETURN_URL                        | Onboarding wallet front-end return url for card method             | string                   |         |
| WALLET_ONBOARDING_APM_RETURN_URL                         | Onboarding wallet front-end return url for other methods than card | string                   |         |
| WALLET_ONBOARDING_PAYPAL_PSP_API_KEY                     | Onboarding PSP API key for PayPal                                  | string                   |         |
| WALLET_PAYMENT_CARD_RETURN_URL                           | Payment with contextual onboarding credit card                     | string                   |         |
| ECOMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHODS_URI                            | eCommerce payment methods uri                                      | string                   |         |
| ECOMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHODS_TIMEOUT                        | eCommerce payment methods read and connection timeout              | string                   |         |
| ECOMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHODS_API_KEY                        | eCommerce payment methods api key                                  | string                   |         |
| REDIS_HOST                                               | Redis host name                                                    | string                   |         |
| REDIS_PASSWORD                                           | Redis password                                                     | string                   |         |
| REDIS_PORT                                               | Redis port                                                         | string                   |         |
| REDIS_SSL_ENABLED                                        | Whether SSL is enabled while connecting to  Redis                  | string                   |         |
| WALLET_SESSION_TTL                                       | Wallet session TTL in minutes                                      | int                      |         |
| WALLET_LOGO_MAPPING                                      | Wallet logo map parameter that handles wallet type to logo mapping | string (Map<string,URI>) |         |
| EXPIRATION_QUEUE_NAME                                    | Name of expiration queue                                           | string                   |         |
| EXPIRATION_QUEUE_TTL_SECONDS                             | TTL in seconds for published message                               | string                   |         |
| EXPIRATION_QUEUE_CONNECTION_STRING                       | Connection string to storage queue                                 | string                   |         |
| EXPIRATION_QUEUE_VISIBILITY_TIMEOUT_SEC                  | Visibility timeout in seconds for expired event                    |                          |         |

### Run docker container

```shell
$ docker compose up --build
```

---

## Develop Locally 💻

### Prerequisites

- git
- gradle
- jdk-17

### Run the project

```shell
$ export $(grep -v '^#' .env.local | xargs)
$ ./gradlew bootRun
```

### Testing 🧪

#### Unit testing

To run the **Junit** tests:

```shell
$ ./gradlew test
```

#### Integration testing

TODO

#### Performance testing

install [k6](https://k6.io/) and then from `./performance-test/src`

1. `k6 run --env VARS=local.environment.json --env TEST_TYPE=./test-types/load.json main_scenario.js`

### Dependency management 🔧

For support reproducible build this project has the following gradle feature enabled:

- [dependency lock](https://docs.gradle.org/8.1/userguide/dependency_locking.html)
- [dependency verification](https://docs.gradle.org/8.1/userguide/dependency_verification.html)

#### Dependency lock

This feature use the content of `gradle.lockfile` to check the declared dependencies against the locked one.

If a transitive dependencies have been upgraded the build will fail because of the locked version mismatch.

The following command can be used to upgrade dependency lockfile:

```shell
./gradlew dependencies --write-locks 
```

Running the above command will cause the `gradle.lockfile` to be updated against the current project dependency
configuration

#### Dependency verification

This feature is enabled by adding the gradle `./gradle/verification-metadata.xml` configuration file.

Perform checksum comparison against dependency artifact (jar files, zip, ...) and metadata (pom.xml, gradle module
metadata, ...) used during build
and the ones stored into `verification-metadata.xml` file raising error during build in case of mismatch.

The following command can be used to recalculate dependency checksum:

```shell
./gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256 clean spotlessApply build 
```

In the above command the `clean`, `spotlessApply` `build` tasks where chosen to be run
in order to discover all transitive dependencies used during build and also the ones used during
spotless apply task used to format source code.

The above command will upgrade the `verification-metadata.xml` adding all the newly discovered dependencies' checksum.
Those checksum should be checked against a trusted source to check for corrispondence with the library author published
checksum.

`/gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256` command appends all new dependencies to the verification files but does
not remove
entries for unused dependencies.

This can make this file grow every time a dependency is upgraded.

To detect and remove old dependencies make the following steps:

1. Delete, if present, the `gradle/verification-metadata.dryrun.xml`
2. Run the gradle write-verification-metadata in dry-mode (this will generate a verification-metadata-dryrun.xml file
   leaving untouched the original verification file)
3. Compare the verification-metadata file and the verification-metadata.dryrun one checking for differences and removing
   old unused dependencies

The 1-2 steps can be performed with the following commands

```Shell
rm -f ./gradle/verification-metadata.dryrun.xml 
./gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256 clean spotlessApply build --dry-run
```

The resulting `verification-metadata.xml` modifications must be reviewed carefully checking the generated
dependencies checksum against official websites or other secure sources.

If a dependency is not discovered during the above command execution it will lead to build errors.

You can add those dependencies manually by modifying the `verification-metadata.xml`
file adding the following component:

```xml

<verification-metadata>
    <!-- other configurations... -->
    <components>
        <!-- other components -->
        <component group="GROUP_ID" name="ARTIFACT_ID" version="VERSION">
            <artifact name="artifact-full-name.jar">
                <sha256 value="sha value"
                        origin="Description of the source of the checksum value"/>
            </artifact>
            <artifact name="artifact-pom-file.pom">
                <sha256 value="sha value"
                        origin="Description of the source of the checksum value"/>
            </artifact>
        </component>
    </components>
</verification-metadata>
```

Add those components at the end of the components list and then run the

```shell
./gradlew --write-verification-metadata sha256 clean spotlessApply build 
```

that will reorder the file with the added dependencies checksum in the expected order.

Finally, you can add new dependencies both to gradle.lockfile writing verification metadata running

```shell
 ./gradlew dependencies --write-locks --write-verification-metadata sha256
```

For more information read the
following [article](https://docs.gradle.org/8.1/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:checksum-verification)

## Contributors 👥

Made with ❤️ by PagoPA S.p.A.

### Maintainers

See `CODEOWNERS` file
